(upbeat music)
BEDMAS!
That's what we're gonna learn about real quick.
If you know what BEDMAS is, skip this video.
This is for anyone who needs to understand
the order of operations in which JavaScript runs.
It is exactly the same as how mathematics,
mathematicians do it.
So let's go through it real quick
and then we'll sort of get into it.
So the order at which things are run
is that things inside of brackets go first,
then we do exponents which is sort of like to the power of.
We actually do have exponents in JavaScript.
It's with these times times.
So like if I were to go here and say like,
two times times two, that is two to the power of two.
Two to the power of 10, 1024.
You get the point, right?
Then division and multiplication, addition and subtraction.
So like why is that all that useful?
Well if we, let's go to this script tag here.
If I make a variable called age
and we do ten times 5, minus 2, what is that going to be?
That's going to be 48.
Why?
Because, well let's go through it.
Brackets, there are none.
This should probably be like PEDMAS.
Parentheses first.
We have lots of kinds of brackets in JavaScript
but the parentheses is the one that we're,
the smooth brackets some people call it,
these are the ones that's we're
worried about here, the parentheses.
So ten times 5, minus 2, well multiplication comes first.
Okay so let's, that's 50, minus two is 48, right?
But if we do const age2 is equal to ten times 5 minus 2,
now what happens is everything inside of the brackets
goes first.
So we go here, this is a bracket,
then we say there's no exponents,
there's no multiplication, there's no division,
there is no addition, and finally subtraction.
Find my suit is 3.
Ten times 3 is equal to 30, right?
So the things inside of the brackets go first
That is helpful when you do a thing like this
If we were to take this calculated bill function
which we've seen a lot
(cowboy accent) Calculate Bill!
We've seen it a lot
then we go down here and say const total
is equal to calculate bill
And we'll say 100 bucks plus
and then we run some parentheses
and we run that with 20 bucks then we minus 15.
Like this is maybe a bit confusing but like what happens is
that these this will run this function
and then they will all sort of equate to values
so all of the functions run
so calculate bill 100 will be equal to 128
That gets replaced with 128
then we run calculate bill again
in here that's 25.6 so that gets replaced with 25.6
and then we run it with 15
and that gets replaced with 19.2
then obviously the subtraction happens
inside the parentheses first, and then it's added to 128
That is order of operations.
What we are now going to dive into
is logic and flow controls.
So it's funny because all of programming
is logic and flow ccontrol, but we're gong to be
sort of diving into all of the nuts and bolts
of how do you structure your JavaScript in such a way
when you want to do things only when things are true
or you only want to do things so many times
or you want to run the thing every 10 seconds
or you want to run something after an amount of time
We are diving into IF statements
Truthy and falsey function returns
equality using AND or OR or AND and OR together
Ternaries which is a word that is hard for me to pronounce
I always say Turnarary.
Ternary, SWITCH statements, timers and intervals.
So buckle up and let's go!